.TH "auksd" "March 2009" "Matthieu Hautreux" "auksd"

.SH "NAME"
auksd \- AUKS daemon serves add/get/remove/dump AUKS client requests

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBauksd\fR [\fI-h\fR] [\fI-dv\fR] [\fI-f auks.conf\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
\fBAUKS\fR (\fBA\fRside \fBU\fRtility for \fBK\fRerberos \fBS\fRupport)
simplifies the use of a kerberized environment in batch system.
An AUKS daemon is a kind of kerberos TGT repository where users can store 
their credentials prior to launch batch jobs and administrators can get 
them to execute jobs with coresponding kerberos identity.
.LP
Only one TGT is stored by user. TGTs are stored by uid. As a result, 
credentials can only be stored for valid local users.
A valid local user is defined as a kerberos user whose principal can be 
translated to a valid local user on the system running the daemon.
When a user asks to add a credential, an already existing  one is only 
replaced if the proposed one is better in terms of durability.
.LP
Clients are authenticated using kerberos and authorized based on their 
principal name using rules defined in the \fIauks.acl\fR ACL file.
AUKS privileges are defined in this files by increasing capabilities 
as follows :
.TP
\fBunknown\fR
client authenticated using kerberos but not known to have any privilege
.TP
\fBguest\fR
client authorized to add kerberos credential on its own name
.TP
\fBuser\fR
client authorized to add/get/remove kerberos credentials that belong to him
.TP
\fBadmin\fR
client authorized to add/get/remove kerberos credentials in the name of any users.
client also authorized to dump all the available credentials.
.LP
The AUKS daemon doesn't manage credentials renewal. This is the purpose 
of the \fBauksdrenewer\fR which must be run by an \fBadmin\fR AUKS user.
.LP
The AUKS daemon is by default launched in background. Increasing verbosity 
on the command line can modify this behavior.
.LP
\fBauksd\fR can be launched at startup using the eponymous service.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
print this message
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
increase verbosity output
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
increase debug output
.TP
\fB\-F\fR
run in foreground
.TP
\fB\-f auks.conf\fR
use \fIauks.conf\fR as the configuration file.
The default is \fB/etc/auks/auks.conf\fR.

.SH "ERRORS"
.LP
exit status is zero in case of success, not zero otherwise.

.SH "COPYING"
.LP
Copyright  CEA/DAM/DIF (2009)
.br

.br
This software is a computer program whose purpose is to simplify
.br
the addition of kerberos credential support in Batch applications.
.br

.br
This software is governed by the CeCILL-C license under French law and
.br
abiding by the rules of distribution of free software.  You can  use, 
.br
modify and/ or redistribute the software under the terms of the 
.br
CeCILL-C license as circulated by CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the 
.br
following URL "http://www.cecill.info". 
.br

.br
As a counterpart to the access to the source code and  rights to copy,
.br
modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only
.br
with a limited warranty  and the software's author,  the holder of the
.br
economic rights,  and the successive licensors  have only  limited
.br
liability. 
.br

.br
In this respect, the user's attention is drawn to the risks associated
.br
with loading,  using,  modifying and/or developing or reproducing the
.br
software by the user in light of its specific status of free software,
.br
that may mean  that it is complicated to manipulate,  and  that  also
.br
therefore means  that it is reserved for developers  and  experienced
.br
professionals having in-depth computer knowledge. Users are therefore
.br
encouraged to load and test the software's suitability as regards their
.br
requirements in conditions enabling the security of their systems 
.br
and/or data to be ensured and,  more generally, to use and operate 
.br
it in the same conditions as regards security. 
.br

.br
The fact that you are presently reading this means that you have had
.br
knowledge of the CeCILL-C license and that you accept its terms.
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR auks (1),
.BR auks.conf (5),
.BR auks.acl (5),
.BR auksd (8),
.BR auksdrenewer (8),
.BR aukspriv (8)
