.TH "aukspriv" "8" "March 2009" "Matthieu Hautreux" "aukspriv"

.SH "NAME"
aukspriv \- AUKS daemon that handles periodical Keytab to TGT operations

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBaukspriv\fR [\fI-h\fR] [\fI-v\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
\fBaukspriv\fR is a simple bash script run as a daemon that periodically 
build a kerberos credential cache based on a keytab.
.LP
This tool enables to ease the usage of system users as kerberos client.
.LP
\fBaukspriv\fR can be launched at startup using the eponymous service.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP

.TP
\fB\-h\fR
print this message

.TP
\fB\-v\fR
increase verbosity output and prevent from starting in background

.SH "ERRORS"
.LP
exit status is zero in case of success, not zero otherwise.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP
.LP
\fBAUKS_PRIV_USER\fR
.br
	set the user to get credential for. The default value is \fBroot\fR.
.LP
\fBAUKS_PRIV_KEYTAB\fR
.br
	set the keytab file to use. The	default value is 
	\fB/etc/krb5.keytab\fR
.LP
\fBAUKS_PRIV_PRINC\fR
.br
	set the krb5 principal name to use. The default value is the 
	first principal found in the keytab.
.LP
\fBAUKS_PRIV_CCACHE_APPEND\fR
.br
	set the string to append to ccache pattern \fB/tmp/krb5cc_%uid\fR.
	The default value is no string to append.
.LP
\fBAUKS_PRIV_LIFETIME\fR
.br
	set the credential lifetime in seconds. The default value is 
	\fB36000\fR (10h)
.LP
\fBAUKS_PRIV_RENEW_INT\fR
.br
	set the time to wait between two build stages. The default value 
	is \fB35000\fR (seconds).
.LP
\fBAUKS_PRIV_SYSLOG_PRIO\fR
.br
	set the syslog facility to use for log information. The default 
	value is \fBlocal3.notice\fR . A \fBnone\fR value means logs on stdout

.SH "COPYING"
.LP
Copyright  CEA/DAM/DIF (2009)
.br

.br
This software is a computer program whose purpose is to simplify
.br
the addition of kerberos credential support in Batch applications.
.br

.br
This software is governed by the CeCILL-C license under French law and
.br
abiding by the rules of distribution of free software.  You can  use, 
.br
modify and/ or redistribute the software under the terms of the 
.br
CeCILL-C license as circulated by CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the 
.br
following URL "http://www.cecill.info". 
.br

.br
As a counterpart to the access to the source code and  rights to copy,
.br
modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only
.br
with a limited warranty  and the software's author,  the holder of the
.br
economic rights,  and the successive licensors  have only  limited
.br
liability. 
.br

.br
In this respect, the user's attention is drawn to the risks associated
.br
with loading,  using,  modifying and/or developing or reproducing the
.br
software by the user in light of its specific status of free software,
.br
that may mean  that it is complicated to manipulate,  and  that  also
.br
therefore means  that it is reserved for developers  and  experienced
.br
professionals having in-depth computer knowledge. Users are therefore
.br
encouraged to load and test the software's suitability as regards their
.br
requirements in conditions enabling the security of their systems 
.br
and/or data to be ensured and,  more generally, to use and operate 
.br
it in the same conditions as regards security. 
.br

.br
The fact that you are presently reading this means that you have had
.br
knowledge of the CeCILL-C license and that you accept its terms.
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR auks (1),
.BR auks.conf (5),
.BR auks.acl (5),
.BR auksd (8),
.BR auksdrenewer (8)
