.TH "auks.conf" "5" "March 2009" "Matthieu Hautreux" "auks.conf"


.SH "NAME"
auks.conf \- AUKS configuration file


.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
\fBauks.conf\fR is an ASCII configuration file which describes the 
basic behaviors of AUKS components.
.LP
The configuration file is made of blocks describing the various 
programs expected behaviors. A block is of the form :
.LP
type {
.br

.br
	param1 = value ;
.br
	param2 = value ;
.br
	...
.br
}
.br
.LP
Parameters meanings differ from block to an other. Four types of blocks
are currently used :

.TP
\fBcommon\fR
.br
describes the global configuration elements.
See \fBCOMMON CONFIGURATION\fR below for details.
.TP
\fBapi\fR
.br
describes configuration elements dedicated to the AUKS API.
See \fBAPI CONFIGURATION\fR below for details.
.TP
\fBauksd\fR
.br
describes configuration elements dedicated to the AUKS daemon \fBauksd\fR.
See \fBAUKSD CONFIGURATION\fR below for details.
.TP
\fBrenewer\fR
.br
describes configuration elements dedicated to credential renewal mechanisms.
See \fBRENEWER CONFIGURATION\fR below for details.


.SH "COMMON CONFIGURATION"
.LP
\fBcommon\fR configuration is in charge of describing the AUKS daemons 
as well as the way they can be contacted.

.TP
\fBPrimaryHost\fR
primary daemon host name. The default value is \fBlocalhost\fR.
.TP
\fBPrimaryAddress\fR
primary daemon address. By default, \fBPrimaryHost\fR is used to get the 
associated addresses.
.TP
\fBPrimaryPort\fR
primary daemon TCP port. The default value is \fB12345\fR.
.TP
\fBPrimaryPrincipal\fR
primary daemon kerberos principal. This value must be defined.
.TP
\fBSecondaryHost\fR
secondary daemon host name. The default value is \fBlocalhost\fR.
.TP
\fBSecondaryAddress\fR
secondary daemon address. By default, \fBSecondaryHost\fR is used to get the 
associated addresses.
.TP
\fBSecondaryPort\fR
secondary daemon TCP port. The default value is \fB12345\fR.
.TP
\fBSecondaryPrincipal\fR
Secondary daemon kerberos principal. This value must be defined.
.TP
\fBNAT\fR
if set to \fByes\fR, enables Network Address Translation support.
When NAT is enabled, a dummy address is configured in client-server kerberos
communications to prevent message source IP check failures.
The default is \fBno\fR. Client and servers \fImust\fR share the same 
configuration.
.TP
\fBRetries\fR
specifies the number of retry that would be done in case of daemons 
unavailabilities. The default is \fB3\fR. A retry correspond to an
attempt to contact the primary daemon plus an attempt to contact 
the secondary.
.TP
\fBTimeout\fR
specifies the timeout in seconds when discussing with the daemons. 
The default is \fB10\fR.
.TP
\fBDelay\fR
specifies the delay in seconds between 2 retries. The default is \fB10\fR.


.SH "API CONFIGURATION"
.LP
\fBapi\fR configuration is in charge of describing the API log and debug 
behaviors. Any application using the AUKS API will log AUKS details according
to the parameters described here. \fBauks\fR is an example of such a client.

.TP
\fBLogFile\fR
specifies the file in which to log AUKS details.
The default is \fB/dev/stdout\fR.
.TP
\fBLogLevel\fR
specifies the level of verbosity to use. The default is \fB0\fR which 
means no log message.
.TP
\fBDebugFile\fR
specifies the file in which to put AUKS debug details.
The default is \fB/dev/stdout\fR.
.TP
\fBDebugLevel\fR
specifies the level of debug to use. The default is \fB0\fR which 
means no debug message.


.SH "AUKSD CONFIGURATION"
.LP
\fBauksd\fR configuration is in charge of describing the AUKS daemons behaviors.
.LP
A part of the daemons configuration is extracted from the \fBcommon\fR block.
\fBPrimaryHostname\fR and \fBSecondaryHostname\fR are used by the application to
determine execution host role.
.LP
Current version of \fBauksd\fR assumes that when the secondary daemon is started,
the primary is stopped. Secondary daemon starts processing requests as soon as it
starts. External Fail-Over mechanism must be used to ensure that only one daemon 
is active at a time.
.LP

.TP
\fBPrimaryKeytab\fR
specifies the file in which is stored the primary daemon kerberos keytab.
The default is \fB/etc/kb5.keytab\fR.
.TP
\fBSecondaryKeytab\fR
specifies the file in which is stored the secondary daemon kerberos keytab.
The default is \fB/etc/kb5.keytab\fR.
.TP
\fBCacheDir\fR
specifies the directory in which the credentials are stored. This directory 
should point to the same data for both primary and secondary daemons.
The default is \fB/var/cache/auks\fR.
.TP
\fBACLFile\fR
specifies the file in which are stored the authorization rules.
The default is \fB/etc/auks/auks.acl\fR.
.TP
\fBQueueSize\fR
specifies the default length of the queue used to store incoming requests. 
The queue grows up automatically when needed by step of this size.
The default is \fB50\fR.
.TP
\fBRepoSize\fR
specifies the default size of the credentials repository. 
The repository grows up automatically when needed by step of this size.
The default is \fB500\fR.
.TP
\fBWorkers\fR
specifies the number of threads that process incoming requests in parallel.
The default is \fB10\fR.
.TP
\fBCleanDelay\fR
specifies the delay in seconds between two clean stages. During a clean 
stage, expired credentials are removed from repository.
The default is \fB300\fR.
.TP
\fBReplayCache (deprecated)\fR
if set to \fBno\fR, the kerberos security layer of the daemon will not detect
replay attacks. This is a security issue but disabling this feature strongly 
improve scalability. Do it only if your network can be considered as secured
related to replay attacks. Deprecated option, the value is always \fByes\fR.
.TP
\fBLogFile\fR
specifies the file in which to log AUKS daemon details. 
The default is \fB/var/log/auksd.log\fR.
Note that when launched using systemd, this parameter is silently ignored as
logs are printed to stdout and managed using journalctl.
.TP
\fBLogLevel\fR
specifies the level of verbosity to use. The default is \fB1\fR and only logs
restart/reconfigure messages as well as statistics. Statistics are logged
when the daemon is signaled with SIGUSR2.
.TP
\fBDebugFile\fR
specifies the file in which to put AUKS daemon debug details.
The default is \fB/var/log/auksd.log\fR.
Note that when launched using systemd, this parameter is silently ignored as
debug infos are printed to stdout and managed using journalctl.
.TP
\fBDebugLevel\fR
specifies the level of debug to use. The default is \fB0\fR which 
means no debug message.


.SH "RENEWER CONFIGURATION"
.LP
\fBrenewer\fR configuration is in charge of describing the AUKS credential renewal
mechanisms.
.LP
Renewal mechanims are used in \fBauksdrenewer\fR as well as in the 
\fBauks_api_renew_cred\fR function of the AUKS API.
.LP
Current AUKS renewal mechanism is based on two parameters, \fBDelay\fR
and \fBMinLifeTime\fR. Every \fBDelay\fR seconds, credentials lifetimes are 
checked. If the remaining time before expiration is less than \fBMinlifetime\fR, 
the credential is renewed using AUKS daemon or the Kerberos KDC in case of AUKS
failure.
.LP
A ticket which lifetime is less than \fBMinlifetime\fR is not took into account
by the mechanism.
.LP
.TP
\fBDelay\fR
.br
delay in seconds between two renewal stages. The default is \fB60\fR.
.TP
.br
\fBMinLifeTime\fR
Minimal lifetime in seconds for a credential to be renewed by the AUKS mechanism.
The default is \fB300\fR. This value is also used as the minimal amount of time 
a crendential must be valid without becoming a renewal candidate.
.LP
The following parameters are only used by \fBauksdrenewer\fR.
\fBauks_api_renew_cred\fR function of the AUKS API uses \fBapi\fR configuration.
.TP
\fBLogFile\fR
specifies the file in which to log \fBauksdrenewer\fR details. 
The default is \fB/var/log/auksdrenewer.log\fR.
Note that when launched using systemd, this parameter is silently ignored as
logs are printed to stdout and managed using journalctl.
.TP
\fBLogLevel\fR
specifies the level of verbosity to use. The default is \fB1\fR.
.TP
\fBDebugFile\fR
specifies the file in which to put \fBauksdrenewer\fR debug details.
The default is \fB/var/log/auksdrenewer.log\fR.
Note that when launched using systemd, this parameter is silently ignored as
debug infos are printed to stdout and managed using journalctl.
.TP
\fBDebugLevel\fR
specifies the level of debug to use. The default is \fB0\fR which 
means no debug message.


.SH "EXAMPLE"
.LP
common {
.br

.br
 PrimaryHost        = "auks" ;
.br
 #PrimaryAddress    = "" ;
.br
 PrimaryPort        = 12345 ;
.br
 PrimaryPrincipal   = "host/auks.myrealm.org@MYREALM.ORG" ;
.br

.br
 SecondaryHost      = "auks2" ;
.br
 #SecondaryAddress  = "" ;
.br
 SecondaryPort      = "12345" ;
.br
 SecondaryPrincipal = "host/auks2.myrealm.org@MYREALM.ORG" ;
.br

.br
 NAT                = no ;
.br

.br
 Retries            = 3 ;
.br
 Timeout            = 10 ;
.br
 Delay              = 3 ;
.br

.br
}
.br

.br
api {
.br

.br
 LogFile            = "/tmp/auksapi.log" ;
.br
 LogLevel           = "0" ;
.br

.br
 DebugFile          = "/tmp/auksapi.log" ;
.br
 DebugLevel         = "0" ;
.br

.br
}
.br

.br
auksd {
.br

.br
 PrimaryKeytab      = "/etc/krb5.keytab" ;
.br
 SecondaryKeytab    = "/etc/krb5.keytab" ;
.br

.br
 LogFile            = "/var/log/auksd.log" ;
.br
 LogLevel           = "1" ;
.br
 DebugFile          = "/var/log/auksd.log" ;
.br
 DebugLevel         = "0" ;
.br

.br
 ACLFile            = "/etc/auks/auksd.acl" ;	
.br
 CacheDir           = "/var/cache/auks" ;
.br
 CleanDelay         = 300 ;
.br

.br
 QueueSize          = 50 ;
.br
 RepoSize           = 500 ;
.br
 Workers            = 10 ;
.br

.br
}
.br

.br
renewer {
.br

.br
 LogFile            = "/var/log/auksdrenewer.log" ;
.br
 LogLevel           = "1" ;
.br

.br
 DebugFile          = "/var/log/auksdrenewer.log" ;
.br
 DebugLevel         = "0" ;
.br

.br
 Delay              = "60" ;
.br

.br
 MinLifeTime        = "600" ;
.br

.br
}
.br


.SH "COPYING"
.LP
Copyright  CEA/DAM/DIF (2009)
.br

.br
This software is a computer program whose purpose is to simplify
.br
the addition of kerberos credential support in Batch applications.
.br

.br
This software is governed by the CeCILL-C license under French law and
.br
abiding by the rules of distribution of free software.  You can  use, 
.br
modify and/ or redistribute the software under the terms of the 
.br
CeCILL-C license as circulated by CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the 
.br
following URL "http://www.cecill.info". 
.br

.br
As a counterpart to the access to the source code and  rights to copy,
.br
modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only
.br
with a limited warranty  and the software's author,  the holder of the
.br
economic rights,  and the successive licensors  have only  limited
.br
liability. 
.br

.br
In this respect, the user's attention is drawn to the risks associated
.br
with loading,  using,  modifying and/or developing or reproducing the
.br
software by the user in light of its specific status of free software,
.br
that may mean  that it is complicated to manipulate,  and  that  also
.br
therefore means  that it is reserved for developers  and  experienced
.br
professionals having in-depth computer knowledge. Users are therefore
.br
encouraged to load and test the software's suitability as regards their
.br
requirements in conditions enabling the security of their systems 
.br
and/or data to be ensured and,  more generally, to use and operate 
.br
it in the same conditions as regards security. 
.br

.br
The fact that you are presently reading this means that you have had
.br
knowledge of the CeCILL-C license and that you accept its terms.
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR auks (1),
.BR auks.acl (5),
.BR auksd (8),
.BR auksdrenewer (8)
