.TH "auks.acl" "5" "March 2009" "Matthieu Hautreux" "auks.acl"


.SH "NAME"
auks.acl \- AUKS daemons Access Control List


.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
\fBauks.acl\fR is an ASCII configuration file which describes the 
ACL used by the AUKS daemons.
.LP
The configuration file is made of blocks describing rules. The block are
processed sequentially until a valid one is found. At that point, the 
associated role is used.
.LP

.SH "RULES CONFIGURATION"
.LP
Rules are blocks of three parameters like in the following example :
.LP
rule {
.br
	principal = value ;
.br
	host = value ;
.br
	role = value ;
.br
}
.br

.TP
\fBprincipal\fR
the principal field is a \fBPOSIX Extended Regular Expression\fR describing 
which principals are associated to the rule.
.TP
\fBhost\fR
this field gives the DNS name or the address of the host from which the rule 
is valid. The wilcard \fB*\fR means any host.
.TP
\fBrole\fR
this parameter gives the rule's associated role. Valid values are \fBguest\fR,
\fBuser\fR and \fBadmin\fR.


.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP
.br
\fBrule\fR {
.br
         \fBprincipal\fR = ^[[:alnum:]]*@REALM.A$ ;
.br
         \fBhost\fR = * ;
.br
         \fBrole\fR = user ;
.br
}
.br
\fBrule\fR {
.br
         \fBprincipal\fR = ^admin/[[:alnum:]]*@REALM.A$ ;
.br
         \fBhost\fR = * ;
.br
         \fBrole\fR = admin ;
.br
}
.br
\fBrule\fR {
.br
         \fBprincipal\fR = ^[[:alnum:]]*@REALM.B$ ;
.br
         \fBhost\fR = * ;
.br
         \fBrole\fR = guest ;
.br
}
.br

.SH "COPYING"
.LP
Copyright  CEA/DAM/DIF (2009)
.br

.br
This software is a computer program whose purpose is to simplify
.br
the addition of kerberos credential support in Batch applications.
.br

.br
This software is governed by the CeCILL-C license under French law and
.br
abiding by the rules of distribution of free software.  You can  use, 
.br
modify and/ or redistribute the software under the terms of the 
.br
CeCILL-C license as circulated by CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the 
.br
following URL "http://www.cecill.info". 
.br

.br
As a counterpart to the access to the source code and  rights to copy,
.br
modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only
.br
with a limited warranty  and the software's author,  the holder of the
.br
economic rights,  and the successive licensors  have only  limited
.br
liability. 
.br

.br
In this respect, the user's attention is drawn to the risks associated
.br
with loading,  using,  modifying and/or developing or reproducing the
.br
software by the user in light of its specific status of free software,
.br
that may mean  that it is complicated to manipulate,  and  that  also
.br
therefore means  that it is reserved for developers  and  experienced
.br
professionals having in-depth computer knowledge. Users are therefore
.br
encouraged to load and test the software's suitability as regards their
.br
requirements in conditions enabling the security of their systems 
.br
and/or data to be ensured and,  more generally, to use and operate 
.br
it in the same conditions as regards security. 
.br

.br
The fact that you are presently reading this means that you have had
.br
knowledge of the CeCILL-C license and that you accept its terms.
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR auks (1),
.BR auks.conf (5),
.BR auksd (8),
.BR regcomp (3)
