.TH "auks" "1" "March 2009" "Matthieu Hautreux" "auks"

.SH "NAME"
auks \- client program to manage AUKS credentials

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBauks\fR [\fI-h\fR] [\fI-dv\fR] [\fI-f auks.conf\fR] [\fI-p|a|g|r|D\fR] [\fI-R once|loop\fR] [\fI-u uid\fR] [\fI-C ccache\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP
The AUKS commandline client can be used to manage AUKS daemon credentials.
Depending on his privileges, a client can use it to add/get/remove
credentials or dump all the available credentials.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP

.TP
\fB\-h\fR
print this message

.TP
\fB\-v\fR
increase verbosity output

.TP
\fB\-d\fR
increase debug output

.TP
\fB\-f auks.conf\fR
use \fIauks.conf\fR as the configuration file.
The default is \fB/etc/auks/auks.conf\fR.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR
do a simple ping request on the first responding AUKS daemon (default).
This operation requires at least to have a valid kerberos credential
to connect to the AUKS daemon

.TP
\fB\-a\fR
add client kerberos credential to the first responding AUKS daemon. If 
client kerberos credential is not an addressless kerberos TGT, an
addressless cred is gotten and then transmitted in place of the given one.
This operation requires at least the \fBguest\fR privilege.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR
get AUKS kerberos credential of the requested uid using the first responding 
AUKS daemon and stores it into the requested credential cache. This operation 
requires at least the \fBuser\fR privilege.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR
remove AUKS kerberos credential of the requested uid using the first responding 
AUKS daemon. This operation requires at least the \fBuser\fR privilege.

.TP
\fB\-D\fR
dump all the AUKS kerberos credentials using the first responding AUKS daemon.
This operation requires at least the \fBadmin\fR privilege.

.TP
\fB\-R once|loop\fR
use AUKS commandline client as a credential renewer process. In \fBloop\fR mode,
the process exits only when an error occured or the credential can no longer 
be renewed. Used renewal mechanism is to first try to renew credential using 
the first responding AUKS daemon and second to use kerberos KDC in case of 
failure. In \fBonce\fR mode, the ticket is renewed once, only if needed, and 
the program exits. This operation requires at least the \fBuser\fR privilege.

.TP
\fB\-u uid\fR
specify the requested uid to use with get/remove requests

.TP
\fB\-C ccache\fR
specify the input/output credential file to use with add/get requests


.SH "ERRORS"
.LP
exit status is zero in case of success, not zero otherwise.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.LP
.TP
\fBKRB5CCNAME\fR
Like any kerberos client, kerberos credentials used during AUKS
communications are stored into the default cache or the cache 
pointed	to by this environment variable.

.SH "COPYING"
.LP
Copyright  CEA/DAM/DIF (2009)
.br

.br
This software is a computer program whose purpose is to simplify
.br
the addition of kerberos credential support in Batch applications.
.br

.br
This software is governed by the CeCILL-C license under French law and
.br
abiding by the rules of distribution of free software.  You can  use, 
.br
modify and/ or redistribute the software under the terms of the 
.br
CeCILL-C license as circulated by CEA, CNRS and INRIA at the 
.br
following URL "http://www.cecill.info". 
.br

.br
As a counterpart to the access to the source code and  rights to copy,
.br
modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only
.br
with a limited warranty  and the software's author,  the holder of the
.br
economic rights,  and the successive licensors  have only  limited
.br
liability. 
.br

.br
In this respect, the user's attention is drawn to the risks associated
.br
with loading,  using,  modifying and/or developing or reproducing the
.br
software by the user in light of its specific status of free software,
.br
that may mean  that it is complicated to manipulate,  and  that  also
.br
therefore means  that it is reserved for developers  and  experienced
.br
professionals having in-depth computer knowledge. Users are therefore
.br
encouraged to load and test the software's suitability as regards their
.br
requirements in conditions enabling the security of their systems 
.br
and/or data to be ensured and,  more generally, to use and operate 
.br
it in the same conditions as regards security. 
.br

.br
The fact that you are presently reading this means that you have had
.br
knowledge of the CeCILL-C license and that you accept its terms.
.br

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR auks.conf (5),
.BR auksd (8)

